In this lesson we are going to make a bit change to how
the answer removed from the UI. Currently when
we remove an answer
it will be removed from the UI by manipulating the DOM directly
using jquery fade out method. That was not the vue js
way.
And the reason why we did that is because
at that time we have not yet implemented
vue js list rendering.
Now since we have vue js list rendering implementedin our system that's why we're come back here and we need to make
a little bit change on how the answer item removed from
the UI by making use of vue reactive system and custom
event
So if we open up vue dev tools then choose answer component
here you'll see answers array
now if we remove one answer in this array
you will see it also remove from the UI immediately.
So that's a vue js reactive system. When a data value
modified it triggers an update of the view to
reflect that change.
But in practice implementing this stuff in our
code is not easy because the answers array is
inside parent component answers component in this case.
While single answer as well as delete button is inside
answer component or child component.
So when the delete button in answer component is hit
the item in answers array should be removed.
But the problem is we cannot mutate the
parent's data from the child component.
And this is something called one way data flow. Data
can only sent from a parent down to a child
So what do we do when the child
needs to send data up to the parent?
The answer is custom events
All right before we look at the custom events in action
let's open up our terminal and git new branch git checkout
-b lesson-38
and then run web pack by saying npm run watch
Now let's open the answer component
then jump to destroy method
here in then method let's remove the jquery
fade out and utilized the custom events.
So the custom events can be emitted from a
child component and listened to by its parent.
Here we use the emit instance method like this this emit
which takes the event name as the first argument here
I'm going to call it deleted
and then an arbitrary number of additional arguments
for any data to be sent along with event
In this case we don't need to send anything just like this
let's save this and give it a try
reload the page
here and vue developer tool
let's switch to events now if I hit the delete
button and hit yes the answer is still in place
but here you can see deleted emit by answer on the
right side we can see the event info name deleted
type emit source answer and payload
empty array
So here the answer component emitted the deleted
event when someone hit the delete button
Now it's time to listen to this deleted
event in the parent component.
Let's switch back over to our editor. And then open answers.vue
Now the parent companion can listen to
deleted event by saying v-on colon deleted
or as you're already known we can
replace this v-on with at symbol.
So what an answer deleted what we need to do?
We'll need to remove it from answers array
and decrement the answers count right?
let's handle that with the method let's say remove
and then pass in the index of the current answer.
And to capture the index here we need to make
a bit change to the v-for directive like this.
Next
Let's go to the script section and then jump to methods property.
Here let's define remove method
and provide an argument
here we simply remove the item from answers array
by utilizing javascript splice method like so.
So the first argument is the index or what position to remove item.
And the second argument is the number of items to be removed.
In this case will remove one item
and then we also need to decrement the number of count property
All right
Let's save all changes and give another try.
Reload the page
here
the question has three answers.
And then here I'm going to hit the delete button
and then hit yes
here the event emitted.
And now the answer has been removed from
the answers list and the number of answers
decreasing. OK
we have successfully implemented vue js
custom events on the answer deletion
We do that by emitting an event from
child component to parent component.
And then parent component
can listen to the event using the v-on directive in the template
where the component is declared. So as a note that data
can only sent from a parent down to a child through custom
properties and a child can send data up
to the parent through custom events
OK that's it let's commit all changes to our git repo.
And join me in the next lesson.